h1=. CodeRay Version History
 
p=. _This files lists all changes in the CodeRay library since the 0.8.4 release._
 
{{toc}}
 
h2. Changes in 0.9.8 "banister" [2011-05-01]
 
Fixes for JRuby's 1.9 mode and minor issues.
 
h3. Rake tasks
 
* *REMOVED* obsolete @has_rdoc@ gem specification, fixing a warning.

h3. @Scanners::Scanner@
 
* *NEW* method @#scan_rest@ replaces @scan_until(/\z/)@, which is broken in JRuby 1.6 --1.9 mode.
  See "#297":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/297.

h3. @Scanners::CSS@
 
* *FIXED* LOC counting (should be 0).
  See "#296":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/296.

h3. @Scanners::Ruby@
 
* *FIXED* the @IDENT@ pattern not to use character properties, which are broken in JRuby 1.6 --1.9 mode.
  See "#297":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/297, thanks to banister for reporting!

h3. @Scanners::SQL@
 
* *ADDED* more keywords: @between@, @databases@, @distinct@, @fields@, @full@, @having@, @is@, @prompt@, @tables@.
  See "#221":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/221, thanks to Etienne Massip again.

h3. @FileType@
 
* *NEW* regonizes ColdFusion file type extensions @.cfm@ and @.cfc@ as XML.
  See "#298":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/298, thanks to Emidio Stani.


h2. Changes in 0.9.7 "Etienne" [2011-01-14]
 
Fixes a dangerous JavaScript scanner bug, and a testing problem with Ruby 1.9.1.
 
h3. Tests
 
* *FIXED* The functional tests now load the lib directory (instead of the gem) in Ruby 1.9.1.

h3. @Scanners::JavaScript@
 
* *FIXED* @KEY_CHECK_PATTERN@ regexp
  See "#264":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/264, thanks to Etienne Massip!


h2. Changes in 0.9.6 "WoNáDo" [2010-11-25]
 
Minor improvements to the Ruby scanner and a fix for Ruby 1.9.
 
h3. @Scanners::Ruby@
 
* *IMPROVED* handling of new hash syntax (keys are marked as @:key@ now,
  colon is a separate @:operator@ token, all idents can be used as keys)
  See "#257":http://code.licenser.net/issues/257, thanks to WoNáDo!
* *ADDED* @__ENCODING__@ magic constant (Ruby 1.9)
* *FIXED*: Scanner no longer tries to modify the input string on Ruby 1.9.
  See "#260":http://code.licenser.net/issues/260, thanks to Jan Lelis!


h2. Changes in 0.9.5 "Germany.rb" [2010-09-28]
 
Support for Rubinius ("#251":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/251), improved mutlibyte handling, Ruby 1.9 syntax, and valid HTML.
 
h3. @Encoders::HTML@
 
* *FIXED*: Line tokens use @span@ with @display: block@ instead of @div@, which was invalid HTML ("#255":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/255).

h3. @Scanner::Scanner@
 
* *IMPROVED* handling of encodings in Ruby 1.9: UTF-8 and Windows-1252 are checked.
* *NEW*: Invalid chars will be converted to @?@ in Ruby 1.9.
* *FIXED* @string=@ method for Rubinius. See "issue 481":http://github.com/evanphx/rubinius/issues/481 on their site.

h3. @Scanners::CSS@
 
* *FIXED*: Don't use non-ASCII regexps.

h3. @Scanners::Diff@
 
* *FIXED*: Highlight unexpected lines as @:comment@.

h3. @Scanners::PHP@
 
* *FIXED*: Use @ASCII-8BIT@ encoding for now.

h3. @Scanners::Ruby@
 
* *ADDED* support for some Ruby 1.9 syntax ("#254":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/254):
** the @->@ lambda shortcut
** new Hash syntax using colons (@{ a: b }@)
* *FIXED*: Use @UTF-8@ encoding.
* *IMPROVED* unicode support on Ruby 1.8 ("#253":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/253).
* *FIXED* recognition of non-ASCII identifiers in Ruby 1.9, JRuby, and Rubinius ("#253":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/253).
* *CHANGED* heredoc recognition to ignore delimiters starting with a digit. This is incorrect, but causes less false positives.

h3. @Scanners::SQL@
 
* *FIXED* scanning of comments; nice catch, Rubinius!
  ("#252":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/252)


h2. Changes in 0.9.4 "Ramadan" [2010-08-31]
 
Updated command line interface and minor scanner fixes for the Diff, HTML, and RHTML scanners.
 
h3. @coderay@ executable
 
* *FIXED*: Partly rewritten, simplified, fixed.
  ("#244":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/244)

h3. @Scanners::Diff@
 
* *FIXED* handling of change headers with code on the same line as the @@ marker.
  ("#247":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/242)

h3. @Scanners::HTML@
 
* *FIXED* a missing regexp modifier that slowed down the scanning.
  ("#245":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/245)

h3. @Scanners::RHTML@
 
* *FIXED* highlighting of ERB comment blocks.
  ("#246":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/246)


h2. Changes in 0.9.3 "Eyjafjallajökull" [2010-04-18]
 
* *FIXED*: Documentation of Tokens.
  ("#218":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/218)
 
h3. @coderay@ executable
 
* *NEW*: automatic TTY detection (uses @Term@ encoder)
* *NEW*: optional 3rd parameter for the filename
* *FIXED*: Converted to UNIX format.
* *FIXED*: Warn about generated files.
* *FIXED*: Ensure line break after the output (especially for LoC counter).

h3. @Scanners::JavaScript@
 
* *FIXED*: Don't keep state of XML scanner between calls for E4X literals.

h3. @Scanners::Java@, @Scanners::JSON@
 
* *FIXED*: Close unfinished strings with the correct token kind.


h2. Changes in 0.9.2 "Flameeyes" [2010-03-14]
 
* *NEW* Basic tests and a _Rakefile_ are now included in the Gem. [Flameeyes]
  A @doc@ task is also included.
* *FIXED* Use @$CODERAY_DEBUG@ for debugging instead of @$DEBUG@. [Trans]
  ("#192":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/192)
* *REMOVED* @Term::Ansicolor@ was bundled under _lib/_, but not used. [Flameeyes]
  ("#205":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/205)
* *WORKAROUND* for Ruby bug 
  "#2745":http://redmine.ruby-lang.org/issues/show/2745
 
h3. @Encoders::Term@
 
* *FIXED* strings are closed correctly
  ("#138":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/138)
* *FIXED* several token kinds had no associated color
  ("#139":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/139)
* *NEW* alias @terminal@
  
  *NOTE:* This encoder will be renamed to @Encoders::Terminal@ in the next release.

h3. @Scanners::Debug@
 
* *FIXED* Don't close tokens that are not open. Send @:error@ token instead.

h3. @Scanners::Groovy@
 
* *FIXED* token kind of closing brackets is @:operator@ instead of @nil@
  ("#148":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/148)

h3. @Scanners::PHP@
 
* *FIXED* allow @\@ operator (namespace separator)
  ("#209":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/209)

h3. @Scanners::YAML@
 
* *FIXED* doesn't send debug tokens when @$DEBUG@ is true [Trans]
  ("#149":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/149)


h2. Changes in 0.9.1 [2009-12-31]
 
h3. Token classes
 
* *NEW* token classes @:complex@, @:decorator@, @:imaginary@
  (all for Python)
* *REMOVED* token class @:procedure@
  – use @:function@ or @:method@ instead.

h3. @Tokens@
 
* *NEW* method @#scanner@
  
  Stores the scanner.
* *REMOVED* methods @.write_token@, @.read_token@, @.escape@, @.unescape@
  
  They were only used by the @Tokens@ encoder, which was removed also.

h3. @Encoders::Encoder@
 
* *REMOVED* Don't require the _stringio_ library.
* *NEW* public methods @#open_token@, @#close_token@, @#begin_line@, @#end_line@
  These methods are called automatically, like @#text_token@.
* *NEW* proteced method @#append_encoded_token_to_output@

h3. @Encoders::Tokens@
 
* *REMOVED* – use @Tokens#dump@ and @Tokens.load@.

h3. @Encoders::Filter@
 
* *NEW*
  A @Filter@ encoder has another @Tokens@ instance as output.

h3. @Encoders::TokenClassFilter@
 
* *NEW*
  
  It takes 2 options, @:exclude@ and @:include@, that specify which token classes
  to include or exclude for the output. They can be a single token class,
  an @Array@ of classes, or the value @:all@.

h3. @Encoders::CommentFilter@
 
* *NEW*
  
  Removes tokens of the @:comment@ class.

h3. @Encoders::LinesOfCode@
 
* *NEW*
  
  Counts the lines of code according to the @KINDS_NOT_LOC@ token class list
  defined by the scanner. It uses the new @TokenClassFilter@.
  
  Alias: @:loc@, as in @tokens.loc@.

h3. @Encoders::JSON@
 
* *NEW*
  
  Outputs tokens in a simple JSON format.

h3. @Encoders::Term@
 
* *NEW* (beta, by Rob Aldred)
  
  Outputs code highlighted for a color terminal.

h3. @Encoders::HTML@
 
* *NEW* option @:title@ (default value is _CodeRay output_)
  
  Setting this changes the title of the HTML page.
* *NEW* option @:highlight_lines@ (default: @nil@)
  
  Highlights the given set of line numbers.
- *REMOVED* option @:level@
  
  It didn't do anything. CodeRay always outputs XHTML.

h3. @Encoders::Text@
 
* Uses @Encoder@ interface with @super@ and @#text_token@.

h3. @Encoders::XML@
 
* @FIXED@ ("#94":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/94)
  
  It didn't work at all.

h3. Scanners
 
* *NEW* Mapped @:h@ to @:c@, @:cplusplus@ and @:'c++'@ to @:cpp@,
  @:ecma@, @:ecmascript@, @:ecma_script@ to @:java_script@,
  @:pascal@ to @:delphi@, and @:plain@ to @:plaintext@.

h3. @Scanners::Scanner@
 
* *NEW* constant @KINDS_NOT_LOC@
  
  A list of all token classes not considered in LOC count.
  Added appropriate values for scanners.
* *NEW* method @#lang@ returns the scanner's lang, which is its @plugin_id@.
* *FIXED* automatic, safe UTF-8 detection _[Ruby 1.9]_
* *FIXED* column takes care of multibyte encodings _[Ruby 1.9]_
* *FIXED* is dumpable (@Tokens@ store their scanner in an @@scanner@ variable)

h3. @Scanners::Cpp@
 
* *NEW* (C++)

h3. @Scanners::Groovy@
 
* *NEW* (beta)

h3. @Scanners::Python@
 
* *NEW*

h3. @Scanners::PHP@
 
* *NEW* (based on Stefan Walk's work)

h3. @Scanners::SQL@
 
* *NEW* (based on code by Josh Goebel)

h3. @Scanners::C@
 
* *IMPROVED* added a list of @:directive@ tokens that were @:reserved@ before
* *IMPROVED* detection of labels
* *IMPROVED* allow @1L@ and @1LL@ style literals

h3. @Scanners::CSS@
 
* *IMPROVED* element selectors are highlighted as @:type@ instead of @:keyword@

h3. @Scanners::Delphi@
 
* *IMPROVED* Don't cache tokens in CaseIgnoringWordList.

h3. @Scanners::Java@
 
* *IMPROVED* @assert@ is highlighted as a @:keyword@ now
* *IMPROVED* @const@ and @goto@ are highlighted as @:reserved@
* *IMPROVED* @false@, @true@, and @null@ are highlighted as @:pre_constant@
* *IMPROVED* @threadsafe@ is no longer a @:directive@
* *IMPROVED* @String@ is highlighted as a @:pre_type@
* *IMPROVED* built-in classes ending with _Error_ or _Exception_ are
  highlighted as a @:exception@ instead of @:pre_type@

h3. @Scanners::JavaScript@
 
* *NEW* a list of @PREDEFINED_CONSTANTS@ to be highlighted as @:pre_constant@
* *NEW* XML literals are recognized and highlighted
* *NEW* function name highlighting
* *IMPROVED* @.1@ is highlighted a number
* *FIXED* strings close with the correct kind when terminated unexpectedly

h3. @Scanners::JSON@
 
* *IMPROVED* constants (@true@, @false@, @nil@) are highlighted as @:value@

h3. @Scanners::Ruby@
 
* *IMPROVED* @Patterns::KEYWORDS_EXPECTING_VALUE@ for more accurate
  @value_expected@ detection
* *IMPROVED* handling of @\@ as a string delimiter
* *IMPROVED* handling of unicode strings; automatic switching to unicode
* *IMPROVED* highlighting of @self.method@ definitions
* *REMOVED* @Patterns::FANCY_START_SAVE@ (obsolete)
* *FIXED* encoding issues _[Ruby 1.9]_
* *FIXED* a problem in early Ruby 1.8.6 patch versions with @Regexp.escape@

h3. @Scanners::YAML@
 
* *IMPROVED* indentation detection

h3. @Styles::Cycnus@
 
* changed a few colors (exceptions, inline strings, predefined types)

h3. @Plugin@
 
* *NEW* method @#title@
  
  Set and get the plugin's title. Titles can be arbitrary strings.
* *NEW* method @#helper@ loads helpers from different plugins
  
  Use this syntax: @helper 'other_plugin/helper_name'@

h3. @FileType@
 
* *NEW* @FileType[]@ takes @Pathname@ instances
* *NEW* regonizes @.cc@, @.cpp@, @.cp@, @.cxx@, @.c++@, @.C@, @.hh@, @.hpp@, @.h++@, @.cu@ extensions (C++)
  
  Thanks to Sander Cox and the TextMate C bundle.
* *NEW* regonizes @.pas@, @.dpr@ extensions (Delphi)
* *NEW* regonizes @.gvy@, @.groovy@ extensions (Groovy)
* *NEW* regonizes @.php@, @.php3@, @.php4@, @.php5@ extensions (PHP)
* *NEW* regonizes @.py@, @.py3@, @.pyw@ extensions (Python)
* *NEW* regonizes @.rxml@ extension (Ruby)
* *NEW* regonizes @.sql@ extension (SQL)
* File types list was sorted alphabetically.

h3. @CaseIgnoringWordList@
 
* *FIXED* ("#97":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/97)
  
  The default value is no longer ignored.

h3. @ForRedCloth@
 
* *FIXED* for RedCloth versions 4.2.0+ ("#119":http://odd-eyed-code.org/issues/119)

h3. Cleanups
 
* warnings about character classes _[Ruby 1.9]_
* encoding issues _[Ruby 1.9]_
* documentation, code


